## 3. Use the context manager pattern

Date: 2024-10-30

### Status
Accepted

### Context
Context managers allow the precise allocation and release of resources such as files, devices and classes. They are implemented via the dunder ('magic') methods '__enter__' and '__exit__', which allow class instances to be automatically allocated at instantiation and cleaned up after completion of the Python 'with' statement. They can also be implemented in functions using a generator, with the 'yield' statement. These concepts are discussed by example, [here](https://book.pythontips.com/en/latest/context_managers.html).

This pattern is considered Pythonic, and follows this basic structure:

```
with myclass_or_constructor(param1, param2, ...) as instance:
    instance.do()
    ...
```

After execution, the instance resource is cleaned up.

For the purpose of this framework, this pattern allows the structured implementation of loops for training, testing and tuning that leverage short-lived resources that are cleanly initialized for every run. Such resources might include models, loggers, configurations, files and datasets. The advantage of this approach is to clearly structure experiments, and make them repeatable and idempotent.

### Decision
1. The framework shall use context managers extensively to structure experiments and to allocate and de-allocate resources.

### Consequences
1. Increased idempotency during code execution and iteration.
1. Increased clarity of structure and scope for encoded experiments.
